documentation/src/content/docs/contributors/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting Started
---

import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will help you get started with developing and contributing to the project. It assumes you have some experience with web development and are comfortable with TypeScript.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you are familiar with the following tools:

-   **[Bun](https://bun.sh/)**: A fast JavaScript runtime and package manager.
-   **[Turborepo](https://turbo.build/repo/docs)**: A high-performance build system for monorepos.
-   **[Biome](https://biomejs.dev/)**: A toolchain for web development, including a formatter and linter.
-   **[Astro Starlight](https://starlight.astro.build/)**: A documentation site generator.

Take some time to familiarize yourself with these tools by visiting the links provided. They are essential for developing and contributing to the project.

The project is written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and uses [WebGPU](https://www.w3.org/TR/webgpu/) for rendering.

## Development Setup

1. Fork and clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   bun install
   ```
3. Bundle all packages:
   ```bash
   bun bundle
   ```
4. Run tests to verify your setup:
   ```bash
   bun test
   ```

## Project Structure

The project is organized into the following directories:

<FileTree>
- documentation/ Documentation site built with Astro Starlight
- examples/ Example projects demonstrating how to use Toasty
- infrastructure/ Infrastructure code for the project, such as the CLI
- packages/ Packages that make up the project
</FileTree>

## Understanding Packages

The project is divided into multiple packages, each treated as an independent project.
This approach promotes separation of concerns and makes the project easier to manage.
It also enables people who do not want to opt-in to the entire project to use individual packages.

Before creating a package, start by building a small demo or project to validate your desired functionality.
This will help you understand the requirements and constraints of the package you are creating.
Avoid over-abstracting too early, as this can lead to unnecessary complexity.

Each package should have its own `README.md` file explaining its purpose and usage, as packages may be used independently.

Make sure to include relevant documentation comments using the [TSDoc](https://tsdoc.org/) standard.
More detailed documentation should be written in the Starlight documentation located in the `documentation` directory.

If possible refrain from depending on other packages, especially third party packages if they are not absolutely necessary.
If necessary, create a new package for the functionality you need.
Avoiding dependencies on other packages will make the project more modular and easier to manage,
and allow for outside users to use individual packages more easily.

## Coding Standards

- Use TypeScript's strict mode and avoid using `any`
- Follow functional programming principles where possible
- Write descriptive variable names with auxiliary verbs (e.g., `isLoading`, `hasRendered`)
- Keep functions small and focused on a single responsibility
- Use meaningful commit messages following conventional commits
- Document public APIs with TSDoc comments
- Colocate tests with the code they test

## Testing

The project uses Bun for testing via the `bun:test` module.

Each package should have its own test suite to ensure that it works as expected and where possible, to prevent regressions.
Timing related functions, that depend on the system clock, [should be mocked with setSystemTime to ensure consistent test results](https://bun.sh/docs/test/time#setsystemtime).

Test files should:
- Be named `*.test.ts`
- Be located next to the file they test
- Include both unit and integration tests where appropriate
- Mock external dependencies and time-based functions
- Test edge cases and error conditions

## Contribution Workflow

1. Create a new branch for your feature or fix
2. Make your changes following the coding standards
3. Add or update tests to cover your changes
4. Run `bun lint` to ensure code quality
5. Update documentation if needed
6. Submit a pull request with a clear description of your changes
7. Respond to review feedback and make necessary adjustments

Commit message:

feat: use vitest instead of bun:test due to coverage short-commings

documentation/src/content/docs/contributors/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting Started
---

import { FileTree } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

This guide will help you get started with developing and contributing to the project. It assumes you have some experience with web development and are comfortable with TypeScript.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you are familiar with the following tools:

-   **[Bun](https://bun.sh/)**: A fast JavaScript runtime and package manager.
-   **[Turborepo](https://turbo.build/repo/docs)**: A high-performance build system for monorepos.
-   **[Biome](https://biomejs.dev/)**: A toolchain for web development, including a formatter and linter.
-   **[Astro Starlight](https://starlight.astro.build/)**: A documentation site generator.
-   **[Vitest](https://vitest.dev/)**: A test framework for JavaScript and TypeScript.

Take some time to familiarize yourself with these tools by visiting the links provided. They are essential for developing and contributing to the project.

The project is written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and uses [WebGPU](https://www.w3.org/TR/webgpu/) for rendering.

## Development Setup

1. Fork and clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   bun install
   ```
3. Bundle all packages:
   ```bash
   bun bundle
   ```
4. Run tests to verify your setup:
   ```bash
   bun run test
   ```

## Project Structure

The project is organized into the following directories:

<FileTree>
- documentation/ Documentation site built with Astro Starlight
- examples/ Example projects demonstrating how to use Toasty
- infrastructure/ Infrastructure code for the project, such as the CLI
- packages/ Packages that make up the project
</FileTree>

## Understanding Packages

The project is divided into multiple packages, each treated as an independent project.
This approach promotes separation of concerns and makes the project easier to manage.
It also enables people who do not want to opt-in to the entire project to use individual packages.

Before creating a package, start by building a small demo or project to validate your desired functionality.
This will help you understand the requirements and constraints of the package you are creating.
Avoid over-abstracting too early, as this can lead to unnecessary complexity.

Each package should have its own `README.md` file explaining its purpose and usage, as packages may be used independently.

Make sure to include relevant documentation comments using the [TSDoc](https://tsdoc.org/) standard.
More detailed documentation should be written in the Starlight documentation located in the `documentation` directory.

If possible refrain from depending on other packages, especially third party packages if they are not absolutely necessary.
If necessary, create a new package for the functionality you need.
Avoiding dependencies on other packages will make the project more modular and easier to manage,
and allow for outside users to use individual packages more easily.

## Coding Standards

- Use TypeScript's strict mode and avoid using `any`
- Follow functional programming principles where possible
- Write descriptive variable names with auxiliary verbs (e.g., `isLoading`, `hasRendered`)
- Keep functions small and focused on a single responsibility
- Use meaningful commit messages following conventional commits
- Document public APIs with TSDoc comments
- Colocate tests with the code they test

## Testing

The project uses [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/) for testing.

Each package should have its own test suite to ensure that it works as expected and where possible, to prevent regressions.
Timing related functions, that depend on the system clock, should be mocked using [Vitest's date mocking](https://vitest.dev/guide/mocking.html#dates).

Test files should:
- Be named `*.test.ts` or `*.browser.test.ts`
- Be located next to the file they test
- Include both unit and integration tests where appropriate
- Mock external dependencies and time-based functions
- Test edge cases and error conditions
- Only use browser specific APIs in `*.browser.test.ts` files
- Only resort to `*.browser.test.ts` if absolutely necessary e.g. when drawing to the screen

## Contribution Workflow

1. Create a new branch for your feature or fix
2. Make your changes following the coding standards
3. Add or update tests to cover your changes
4. Run `bun lint` to ensure code quality
5. Update documentation if needed
6. Submit a pull request with a clear description of your changes
7. Respond to review feedback and make necessary adjustments
